Introduction to Networking

-------------------------------

Internet -> Modem -> Router -> Firewall -> Switch -> PC

Modem connects you to your ISP which connects you to the internet
Routers allow multiple computers to join the same network
Switches connect computers to the internet 
Firewall protects PC against hackers


Logical vs Physical

Computers can be physically connected to a switch, router, etc.
But for example, if there are 20 computers physically connected to a switch, we can logically
	connect 10 of them together and logically connect the other 10 together.
If this happens, the 10 computers cannot connect with the other 10 computers.


How to measure speed?

Measured in bits (b) and bytes (B) in a given time (/s)
8b = 1B
You can check ISP wesites to see how fast the internet will be.


Modem 

Can be T1, satellite interconnect, cable, or DSL
Asynchronous data transfer -> You can download faster than you can upload

DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) provided by phone company
DSL modem takes signals from computer, then sends message to telephone company that they can understand
DSL is limited and won't be faster than 12 mbps (technological limit) while cable can 
	keep getting faster.
DSL connection is made specifically from you to phone company so its speed won't be affected if 
	everyone decides to use the internet at the same time you do.


T1 uses adtram, they are the best type of connection to the interner but are expensive.
	Now they made T2, T3, etc. which is even faster but even more expensive.


Router

Allows to separate different networks
Can go through the router but cannot go through other people's routers
Useful to split one internet connection to multiple tennants


Firewall

Prevents hackers from getting into network
These days they are much more complicated than before (software firewalls)


Virtual Private Network

Allows computers anywhere in the world to connect to your network


Switch

Can connect multiple computers (have lots of ethernet ports)
Unmanaged Switch - Everything automatice (can't control much)
Managed Switch - Can go in and program and change settings


WAP

Wireless Access Points
 - Allows wireless computers to connect to the network

802.11 - A standard of the device (there are 4: a, b, g, n)

802.11a - Used to be good but no longer used
        - is not compatible with other types of networks
802.11b - 11 Mbps 
802.11g - 54 Mbps
	- b and g are compatible with eachother
802.11n - recent standard
	- allow real time voice/video
